Hello, Guest!
Welcome to the site Useful English!
This website is for those who are studying English as a foreign language (ESL / EFL). The aim of this site is to help you to build a firm foundation for your English to which you will be able to add new knowledge yourself. This basis consists of four essential components that you should master and use actively:


Simple, useful grammar;


Clear, correct pronunciation;


Sufficient vocabulary;


Adequate conversational skills.


Educational materials on the site Useful English are designed to serve this purpose, and the guiding principle is "the simpler the better". This site cannot be a substitute for a good English textbook. But it will give you the tools and materials you need to study English effectively.


Various materials on this site describe the use of standard English, that is, the language of general use in its standard usage. Examples of use, words and phrases, idioms and set expressions in the materials that we offer for studying can be used in various situations in speech and writing. Phonetic materials of the site are based on the American variant of pronunciation.


The exercises on this site will help you to check your knowledge of grammar, synonyms, phrasal verbs, idioms, phrases, spelling, etc. Your task in the exercises is to choose the most appropriate answer. Generally, the exercises follow the norms of standard and formal American usage. Differences between British English and American English are described in many materials on our site.


It is easy to explain English words and phrases without translation in class, where teachers and students communicate face to face. But the same is difficult to do at distance and without real communication. We provide Russian translation to help you to understand the text in English better.


Many of our articles are given in two parallel columns: the column on the left is in English, and the column on the right is in Russian. We try to make our Russian translation as close to the text in English as possible, but it is not word-for-word translation.


It is important to stress that we do not recommend studying English by comparing the text in English with its Russian translation. It is much more useful to study and use typical English constructions and commonly used words, phrases and idioms that we have collected and explained in the materials of our site.


Do not read only the Russian column; it is not good for your English. We recommend the following method: Read the text (or part of it) in the English column, look up new words in the Russian column, read the text in English again, write out and learn useful English phrases. And switch off the Russian column as often as you can, please.


You need to have JavaScript enabled in your browser in order to see the columns with parallel translation and to use the language options. There are two language options on our site: English; English and Russian. They are in the upper right-hand corner of those pages on which such options are offered. Try them now.


The search on this site will help you to find what you need quickly, in English or in Russian. Bear in mind that the search looks for exact matches in the text and will not find the word or phrase that you are looking for if even one letter is different. It is better to enter your search in the form of one keyword or a very short phrase. The search is not case-sensitive; it treats uppercase and lowercase letters as the same and will return the same results for the search word typed with capital or small letters.


Good luck!
