MIXED CONDITIONALS READING
I'd been looking for a new job for a while, as I really hated my present one. I didn't get on very
well with my boss and I found the job really boring, so it was definitely time for a change. I had
seen an advert in the local paper for a job that sounded absolutely perfect for me. I had to have
it! I spent a long time on my CV and wrote a really convincing covering letter.
You can guess what happened…
On the day of the interview I overslept! I must have forgotten to set my alarm the night before.
I jumped out of bed, quickly put some clothes on and rushed out the door but I was never going
to make it in time. If only I'd set my alarm, I would've been on time!
I would normally take the bus but, as I was running late, I decided the tube might be quicker.
I ran down the
escalators and jumped onto the train, just as the doors were closing. I breathed a sigh of relief
– I might just make it after all. After a couple of minutes
I noticed that other people on the train were looking at me strangely. Suddenly, I had
a dreadful feeling. I looked down at my feet. I still had my slippers on! I must have been in
such a rush to leave the house that I forgot to put my smart black shoes on. This was a
disaster! What would the interviewer think of me?
I still really wanted the job so I decided to carry on. I got off the train and rushed outside. It had
started to rain and I had forgotten my umbrella. It was only a short walk to my destination but I
decided to take a taxi so I wouldn't get too wet. I stood at the edge of the road waiting for a taxiwhen a huge truck drove past. I had been standing right next to a big puddle and I was now
completely covered in dirty water!
I couldn't go to the interview looking like this. I decided to turn back and go home. Feeling very
upset, I crossed the road to the tube station. I obviously wasn't looking because the next thing I
knew, I was waking up in a hospital bed with lots of cuts and bruises and a broken leg! I wish I'd
never got out of bed that morning!
